--- 
layout: post 
title: Security is All About Context  
---

Since this is my first security related blog post (ever), I would like to write
about one of the most important things that I learnt during my grad school:
*security is all about context*. This is exactly one of those important lessons
that we learn, as a student, and don’t realize their importance until we apply
them to the real world problems. It has been almost 3 months since I’ve started
working as a full-time Security Consultant, and I’ve already realized how
appropriately this phrase applies to the real world problems in computer
security. 

In case you don't feel like reading more, here's the TLDR: 
> "Security is all about Context"



One of the perks of working as a Security Consultant is that you get to
test/break/pwn applications/software every now and then. In order to effectively
test applications/software, it is really important to understand the context.
Two great approaches to understanding the context are: [Application Threat
Modeling] (https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Application_Threat_Modeling) and
[Attack Surface Analysis]
(https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Attack_Surface_Analysis_Cheat_Sheet) (these do
not have to be formal ones if you’re just testing an application, but are very
important for efficient security assessments). From the OWASP links mentioned
above:

> The Attack Surface describes all of the different points where an attacker
> could get into a system, and where they could get data out.  Threat Modeling
> is a structured approach that enables you to identify, quantify, and address
> the security risks associated with an application. 

> There is a recursive relationship between Attack Surface Analysis and
> Application Threat Modeling: changes to the Attack Surface should trigger
> threat modeling, and threat modeling helps you to understand the Attack
> Surface of the application. 

The simplest possible example that I could think of off the top of my head is
related to a Cross-Site Scripting mitigation technique. The most common advice
on this problem, which experts usually give, is: *"Use context appropriate
encoding"* (notice the word "context"?). It simply means that just *any* output
encoding cannot guarantee full-proof protection against XSS attacks. What else
could go wrong if we just HTML encode the output? Well, the application might be
inserting these user inputs into JavaScript or into the event handlers, in which
case HTML encoding is not the correct mitigation. Now the question is if it is
enough to just escape all inputs with respect to JavaScript and HTML? Again, it
depends!  What if the application has an import to CSV functionality, allowing
others to import user data in CSV (Comma Seperated Values) format? An attacker
can use this to insert spreadsheet formulae, which can lead to arbitrary command
execution on victim’s computer. For more information on this, read [Comma
Separated Vulnerabilities]
(http://www.contextis.com/resources/blog/comma-separated-vulnerabilities/). The
point is, it is hard to devise a proper mitigation mechanism for an attack,
without understanding the context.

Yet another example (kind of lame, but apt with regards to this post’s topic):
Apple claims that [*your fingerprint is the perfect
password*](https://www.apple.com/iphone-6/touch-id/). Well, they are absolutely
right! But this cannot be true in every context. For instance: <blockquote
class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center" lang="en"><p>I woke this morning to find
my 7 y/o levering my finger onto the TouchID sensor of my phone. Maybe time to
go back to passwords.</p>&mdash; Matthew Green (@matthew_d_green) <a
href="https://twitter.com/matthew_d_green/status/537236790000615426">November
25, 2014</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js"
charset="utf-8"></script>

I’m sure that by now, you all would have realized that this is the reason why
any advice/solution/answer, that you've received or you'll ever receive from a
security expert, will always start with the phrase: ***It depends***. Yep, it
all depends on the context! Big thanks to [Prof. Seth Nielson]
(https://www.linkedin.com/in/sethjamesnielson) for teaching this important
lesson (among many others).
<br />
<br />
Feel free to [email me](mailto:contact@rahilarora.com), if you want me to share
something specific or need any advice/help. Please feel free to do the same or
leave a comment below, if you have any advice for me or any comment regarding
anything on this website. *We are all here to learn. That's what life is all
about!*
